--===============6791383600023516581==
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bitHi,
Facsimiles, high quality or otherwise,  are in no way a substitution for 
a critically edited text.  This is true in a print framework and remains 
true in a digital frame.   Also, within scholarly economics, facsimiles 
are only reproductions, and while helping with dissemination, they do 
not add to critical knowledge.  On the other hand critical editing is 
highly valued because it does add to knowledge.  Digital markup and 
editing adds value to this already highly valued product because it 
facilitates searching, analysis, computer visualization of the results 
of that analysis, archiving and adaptive reuse by other scholars.Scholarly communication is undergoing a dramatic transformation.  The 
abrogation of responsibilty by the scholarly community to strategically 
invest in technological advances to publish our most valued 
communication has led to a crisis.  Relying upon commercial ventures to 
provide technical infrastructure is in conflict with the best interest 
of healthy collegial communication. The result is that the publication 
process is at risk of being distorted because commercial considerations 
often overshadow the intellectual goals of the product.  Because these 
business practices are intertwined with the implementation of new 
technologies and its infrastructure, the problem of maintaining peer 
reviewed publication as the primary venue for scholarly discourse is 
becoming ever more complex .New technologies could lead scholarly communication down two different 
paths: One offers a rare opportunity to expand and accelerate the free 
flow of scholarly knowledge while the other could result in control and 
limitations on its dissemination.  The transformation has both 
institutional and structural implications for the entire University 
community.  The humanities community has a role to play in this 
transformation.As I see it, standards based structural language or computer skill, is 
essential to the health of scholarly economy as it provides a 
sustainable model for scholarly communication.  And, it goes beyond just 
the markup language or information technology skill itself.  The TEI 
consortium provides a community in which tools and knowledge are shared 
openly.  It  is at the forefront of creating a new realm of scholarly 
communication, blending the present with the past.  Standards are the 
way the humanities will be able to fulfill a responsibility to making 
sure that their products are archivable, without which they are only 
ephemeral.  Standards are a way to communicate with the technologies 
that are central to digital libraries and institutional digital 
repositories.  Standards are a way to evaluate the quality of digital 
products.  Being knowledgeable of them will be essential to ongoing 
professional professorial life, as university self-governance requires 
that faculty participate in service on APT committeess, overseeing 
strategic infrastructure investment, and, for humanities in particular, 
engagement with the library.I know this is probably at a higher level of conceptualization than your 
original question demanded, but I see all these issues as being 
intertwined.  As the Chair of the Committee on Electronic Resources for 
the Medieval Academy, I've been thinking on a policy level and feel it 
is imperative for computing medievalists to be recognized as central to 
the future of our field.Pax et bonum,
Patricia Kosco Cossard, M.A., M.L.S.
currently Resident Fellow at MITH 5-8506
Subject Librarian for Architecture and Historic Preservation
University of Maryland Libraries
College Park, MD 20742
(301) 405-6316 office
(301) 314-9583 fax
pcossard(a)umd.edu
Th 
 --===============6791383600023516581==--
