--===============3640169574470127101==
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bitIt seems astonishing that anyone would think that a facsimile--even a 
stunningly good color digital image is anything but a starting point from 
which work on an electronic edition could proceed (on the understanding 
that the original will be visited at some point in the process).An image does not self-analyze any more than an original does, so delivery 
of linked color images is only a small part of an electronic edition of a 
manuscript.I, too, certainly become discouraged by the labor-intensive quality of some 
forms of markup, but this is in no way to say that they are 
obsolete.  Rather, they are in need of adaptable GUI tools that allow 
faster pointing and clicking.  I use NoteTab Pro for this work currently 
because it is cheap, reliable and adaptable on the fly at a very basic 
level, but I'd love something that really was as fast, versatile and 
convenient as Dreamweaver, with its available split-screen code+result 
view, each of those views directly editable.Heck, I'd probably even pay good money for it.  As a user of Dreamweaver 
for some web site projects (of the time is money sort), I haven't yet found 
anything like it for our much more strictly ordered TEI/XML work, nor am I 
in a position to write anything myself.Humanities computing on the part of the humanist is certainly the road less 
travelled, and this is doubtless not only because of technophobia, but also 
because of the vast amount of "extra" work involved.  In my program in 
medieval English literature at the University of Virginia, I already had to 
learn more than one "extra" language (Old English, Latin, and one other 
medieval vernacular) in addition to the standard modern language 
requirement in place for people working in periods later than medieval.Then I had to learn textual criticism and finally humanities computing, the 
latter pretty much on-the-fly.Two qualities were needed for this endeavor: Stubbornness (congenital, no 
problem) and a special hybrid of shamelessness and humility that has taken 
me years to develop and which is still a bit of a struggle every time I 
come into the presence of real computer scientists such as those at the 
annual TEI Members' Meeting with my pathetic little bit of "kung fu."Will they laugh, or will they help me out?  Is my current work ultimately 
just one big digital boner, perpetrated by a rank amateur who never had any 
business meddling in the field anyway, or a nifty combination of textual 
criticism and digital technology?  An Caltech Ph.D. I ain't, so I don't 
have much of an answer to these questions most of the time.  I have to 
arrange not to care.  Thus, the virtue of shamelessness, essential to what 
I call the medium-tech scholar.What I do have to do, like everyone else in my position, is constantly 
learn new technology, usually on my own from four of five books, or with a 
few hours tutoring from a generous tech on the side (Bless them!  Bless 
them!)--all of it while somehow maintaining my status as a literary 
scholar, a bit of a Latinist, a codicologist...[Yes, I do find there is a constant element of flim-flam involved in 
survival as a digital medievalist, in that you have to explain  to 
non-techs why everything takes you longer (time to learn the technology) 
and to the techs why you are so profoundly ignorant (time to learn the 
humanities angle).]It seems to me that we all have to be ambassadors of technology to 
humanists who may well have gotten into their humanism in part because of 
math-phobia and/or a related technophobia.  Me, I wrote my first program on 
a Commodore 64 and yes, it was in my parents' basement, as was the 
chemistry equipment that Dad gave me for Christmas.  The telescope was kept 
upstairs, because you couldn't get much of a shot at the sky 
otherwise.  The oddity is that I then swerved over into what my family 
thinks of as "professional story reading."Most potential recruits to digital humanities do not have this early 
technophile profile.  Some may not even know what duct tape is, either 
literally or figuratively.With such as these, we need to foreground the playful aspect of our 
work.  It _is_ fun, but they do not see how, nor do they see how they could 
be having fun in that particular way.  It is possible, however, to present 
the thin end of the wedge here, and also to present more drinks and hors 
d'oeuvres at special open house sessions at humanities conferences.  And 
back at the home institution, it is also possible to con people into 
collaboration, sharing your expertise with them, and getting a bit of 
theirs as well.  Get together.  Share food and drink and an interest in 
_their_ work, without mentioning yours much, except to brainstorm 
occasionally about what a splendid multimedia project their work could be 
turned into.  Have them seeing The Vision before you have them seeing the 
angle brackets.Humanities computing could be the driving force behind interdisciplinarity, 
and a lot of really fun collegiality if we wanted it to be.There will always be work for which our technologies are not particularly 
useful--or at last not specially or crucially useful.  They can always be 
applied to almost any intellectual work as an efficient display and 
delivery tool, or add multimedia presentations that very greatly enhance a 
more "traditional" form of humanities work that does not in itself depend 
on digital analysis, but only some kinds of humanities work--that which is 
at least somewhat quantifiable--can be taken to where the digitization 
becomes the very heart of the matter.  (I bet someone will jump on that.)I'd say, any digital humanist who has not done any 100% non-digital work 
recently should probably do so at his or her earliest convenience.  Send in 
a proposal for a paper in an entirely non-digital literary, history or art 
history conference.  It can be a means of re-establishing contact with 
potential digital humanists, but it is certainly also as good a 
mental  exercise for us as a little digitization is for the non-technical 
humanist.I speak from experience. 8-)PRB--===============3640169574470127101==
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Transfer-Encoding: base64
Content-Disposition: attachment; filename="attachment.html"
