--===============8856196822363514211==
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bitThis in today's NYTimes, about the Google plan to digitize whole libraries:Writers Sue Google, Accusing It of Copyright Violation
By EDWARD WYATT
Published: September 21, 2005Three authors filed suit against Google yesterday contending that the 
company's program to create searchable digital copies of the contents of 
several university libraries constituted "massive copyright infringement."The University of Michigan has agreed to let Google create a searchable 
database of its library collection.
Related Class Action Complaint (The Authors Guild v. Google)
Readers
Forum: Technology and the InternetThe lawsuit, filed in United States District Court in Manhattan, is the 
first to arise from the Google Print Library program, the fledgling 
effort aimed at a searchable library of all the world's printed books.Google intends to make money from the project by selling advertising on 
its search pages, much as it does on its popular online search-engine site.The plaintiffs, who are seeking class-action status, also include the 
Authors Guild, a trade group that says it represents more than 8,000 
published authors. Listed as plaintiffs in the suit are Daniel Hoffman, 
a former consultant in residence at the Library of Congress and the 
author of many volumes of poetry, translation and literary criticism; 
Betty Miles, an author of children's and young adult fiction; and 
Herbert Mitgang, the author of a biography of Abraham Lincoln as well as 
novels and plays. Mr. Mitgang is a former cultural correspondent and 
editorial writer for The New York Times.Each of the plaintiffs claim copyright to at least one literary work 
that is in the library of the University of Michigan, according to the 
suit. Michigan is one of three universities, along with Harvard and 
Stanford, that agreed last year to let Google create searchable 
databases of their entire collections. The New York Public Library and 
Oxford University also entered into agreements with Google, but only for 
the works in their collections that are no longer covered by copyright.Paul Aiken, executive director of the Authors Guild, said the 
organization did not know whether Google had yet copied any of the works 
by the plaintiffs. But he noted that they were seeking an injunction 
against copying and a declaration that the program violates copyright 
law, as well as damages from any violations so far.The suit contends that Google knew or should have known that the 
Copyright Act "required it to obtain authorization from the holders of 
the copyrights in these literary works before creating and reproducing 
digital copies of the works for its commercial use and for the use of 
others."Google has said from the beginning that its program is covered by the 
"fair use" provision of the copyright law, which allows limited use of 
protected works. In a statement issued in response to the suit, Google 
also said its program respected copyrights."We regret that this group has chosen litigation to try to stop a 
program that will make books and the information within them more 
discoverable to the world," the statement said. "Google Print directly 
benefits authors and publishers by increasing awareness of and sales of 
the books in the program. And, if they choose, authors and publishers 
can exclude books from the program if they don't want their material 
included. Copyrighted books are indexed to create an electronic card 
catalog and only small portions of the books are shown unless the 
content owner gives permission to show more."Google temporarily suspended its library project last month to give 
authors and other copyright holders until November to opt out by telling 
it that they did not want certain works to be copied.But Mr. Aiken said that offer turned longstanding precedents in 
copyright law upside down, requiring owners to pre-emptively protect 
rights rather than requiring a user to gain approval for use of a 
copyrighted work.Some aspects of the Google Print program have encountered relatively 
little opposition, particularly one that invites publishers to submit 
their books to Google for scanning and inclusion in the Google search 
engine. Most of the large commercial publishing houses have submitted 
books to Google for scanning, in the hope that the program will lead 
users to find and buy their books more easily.--===============8856196822363514211==--
