--===============4761485729571020873==
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bitFYI (Apologies for cross-posting)
=====
The AHDS has made the following response to JISC's announcement of 13
June concerning the future funding of our service. (JISC's announcement
appears below the response.)----------------------------------------------------AHDS response to JISC announcementThe AHDS recognises that it is not possible for the JISC alone to
continue to fund the AHDS as it is currently constituted. The AHDS
welcomes the decision by the JISC to explore with the AHDS, partner
organisations and the wider community alternative approaches to
maintaining its strong support for the arts and humanities community
beyond March 2008. The AHDS will be working closely with the JISC and
partner organisations over the next few months to identify a legacy plan
and future agenda that will ensure the expertise and achievements of the
AHDS are not lost to the community, and that will help to meet the many
challenges of the future.We are deeply grateful to the JISC for their generous support of the
AHDS over the last eleven years which has, in combination with the
support provided by the AHRC in more recent years, allowed us to achieve
so much in support of the creation, curation and preservation of digital
resources and the use of ICT in the arts and humanities.In the meantime, and at least until 31st March 2008, the AHDS will
continue to give advice and guidance on all matters relating to the
creation of digital content arising from or supporting research,
teaching and learning across the arts and humanities, including
technical and metadata standards and project management. If you have a
data creation project, please do not hesitate to contact us for advice.The AHDS will continue to work with those creating important digital
resources to advise on the best methods for keeping these valuable
resources available and accessible for the long-term in a form that
encourages their further use for answering new research questions, and
their use in teaching and learning. This advice will include exploring
with content creators and owners suitable repositories in which they
might deposit their materials for long term curation and preservation,
and how to ensure that their materials can continue to be discovered and
used by the wider community. If you are currently in negotiation with
the AHDS to deposit your digital collection, please continue to work
with us to ensure the future sustainability and accessibility of your
resource.The AHDS will continue to make available its rich collection of digital
content for use in research, teaching and learning, and to preserve
those collections in its care. The AHDS intends to discuss with the JISC
and the AHRC the long term future of these collections beyond April 2008
with the intention of securing their continued preservation and
availability.Last, but not least, the AHDS will continue with its portfolio of
projects and related services, and to make an active contribution to the
different communities of practice with whom we have so enjoyed working
over the last eleven years, and with whom we look forward to working in
the future.Sheila Anderson
Director, Arts and Humanities Data Service
13 June 2007----------------------------------------------------Supporting research in the Arts and Humanities: JISC to review its servicesFollowing the decision by the AHRC (Arts and Humanities Research
Council) to cease funding the AHDS (Arts and Humanities Data Service)
from March 31st 2008, JISC has decided that it is unable to fund the
service alone and that therefore its own funding of the service will, in
its current form, cease on the same date.In its 11 years of existence the AHDS has established itself as a centre
of expertise and excellence in the creation, curation and preservation
of digital resources and has been responsible for a considerable
engagement of the Arts and Humanities community with ICT and a
significant increase in that community’s knowledge and use of digital
resources. Its contribution to the development of technical standards,
its outreach to sectors beyond higher education, such as cultural
heritage, arts, museum and archive organisations and its support for the
development of a national e-infrastructure and repository system have
been among its many significant achievements.In the light of these achievements and the consequent risks to the
continued development of the Arts ands Humanities community’s engagement
with ICT, JISC is exploring with the AHDS, partner organisations and the
wider community alternative approaches to maintaining its strong support
for that community beyond March 2008.JISC has a long history of support for Arts and Humanities research,
beginning with the founding of the AHDS in 1996 and continuing with its
collaboration with the AHRC over the ICT Methods Network, the Arts and
Humanities e-Science initiative (with the AHRC and EPSRC), its
contribution to the wider e-Science Initiative, and in particular the
Research Grants and Studentships Scheme and the Arts and Humanities
e-Science Support Centre (AHESSC). JISC’s Support of Research committee
has also funded the Aria Projects and a related Projects and Methods
database which have now been merged into an integrated resource, the ICT
Guides.At its meeting yesterday, the JISC Board reaffirmed its strong
commitment to continuing this engagement but in the light of wider
developments reluctantly acknowledged that the AHDS as currently
constituted would not be part of its service provision beyond next year.Chair of JISC, Professor Sir Ron Cooke, paid tribute to the AHDS,
saying: “The AHDS has achieved a great deal in the last 11 years and we
would like to thank its staff for their skill, dedication and hard work
over these years. One of the AHDS’s many achievements has been
establishing capacity and expertise within the Arts and Humanities
community. JISC will continue to support that community in its
engagement with ICT in order to meet the many challenges of the future.”13 June 2007------------------------------------------------------ 
Dr James Cummings, Oxford Text Archive, University of Oxford
James dot Cummings at oucs dot ox dot ac dot uk
--===============4761485729571020873==--
