--===============8446202497413239078==
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bitI'm happy to report that North Carolina State University has been awarded a
CLIR Postdoctoral Fellowship for Data Curation in Medieval Studies. The
full job description is pasted below and may also be viewed at
http://www.clir.org/fellowships/postdoc/applicants/ncsu2013. More
information on the program may be viewed at
http://www.clir.org/fellowships/postdoc/applicants/dc-medieval. I will be
working directly with the fellow and am happy to answer any questions.Tim Stinson---
Desired Skills & ExpertiseFamiliarity with or interest in learning HTML, XML, and WordPress. Strong
organizational and communication skills to coordinate with project partners
across campus and at other institutions. Ability to make effective use of
social media for public outreach. Programming skills and/or familiarity
with metadata standards desirable but not required.Fellow's RoleThe Fellow will serve as a liaison between academic departments, faculty
researchers, and the Digital Libraries Initiatives (DLI) Department on
NCSU’s campus. The fellow will have the opportunity to work on four
NCSU-based projects involving data curation in medieval studies: the
Medieval Electronic Scholarly Alliance (MESA); the Manuscript DNA project;
the Siege of Jerusalem Electronic Archive (SJEA); and the Piers Plowman
Electronic Archive (PPEA). The fellow will also serve as a liaison between
NCSU and partners at other universities engaged in related research
projects, including the Advanced Research Consortium (ARC), a
meta-federation comprising MESA, the Renaissance English Knowledgebase
(REKn), 18thConnect, the Networked Infrastructure for Nineteenth-Century
Electronic Scholarship (NINES), and Modernist Networks (ModNets). The
fellow will have the opportunity to conduct original research on data
curation strategies and will be encouraged to participate actively in the
larger community of CLIR postdoctoral fellows, including the cohort of
fellows in the Data Curation in Medieval Studies Fellowship program. A
strong emphasis will be placed not only on the ways that the Fellow can
contribute to our institution, but to the professional development of the
Fellow in the fields of medieval studies and library science.Duties and ResponsibilitiesStudy data curation strategies in use on other campuses and in other
fields, including the sciences, and develop a set of recommendations for
best practices for the curation of humanities data. This work will be done
in consultation with the online DH Curation Guide and will form the basis
of contributing new resources and information to that guide.
Seek solutions for linking humanities data and datasets to related
scholarship in new forms of interactive publications; the Fellow will be
encouraged to consult and seek partnerships with relevant initiatives such
as Anvil Academic and Open Humanities Press as well as with ARC partners,
including JSTOR, ECCO (Eighteenth Century Collections Online) and Project
MUSE
Present original research at professional conferences as appropriate
Collaborate with software developers on the creation, modification, and
augmentation of tools related to digital projects in the field (e.g.,
development of the Collex browser for MESA, enhancements to the fuzzy
search capabilities built into SJEA and MESA to accommodate
non-standardized medieval spelling practices)
Conduct user testing of software and web portals using the NCSU Libraries’
Usability Research Lab
Use social media for public outreach related to NCSU Libraries, the Data
Curation Fellowship program, and medieval studies projects on which the
fellow is working
Participate in the organization of workshops and symposia, including
digital public humanities events and meetings of the Advanced Research
Consortium held on NCSU’s campusLocal Guidance and Professional Development SupportAs a member of the Digital Libraries Initiatives (DLI) Department the
Fellow would be a member of a 14-person team that works in the areas of
data curation, digital repositories, web and mobile applications, digital
media, data visualization, and geospatial data. The Fellow would
participate in departmental teams and meetings, and would have the
opportunity to collaborate with staff that have a variety of technical and
domain-specific skill sets. The Fellow would have access to technology
support and consultation services from DLI staff members as well as from
the Information Technology Department, which maintains the Libraries’
technical infrastructure.The Fellow would work closely with Professor Timothy Stinson in the
Department of English on the four interdisciplinary projects listed above,
as well as with Professor James Knowles of English, the project manager for
PPEA. Cumulatively, these projects include a wide variety of data related
to medieval studies, including large genomic datasets from the Manuscript
DNA project, XML-encoded transcriptions and descriptions of manuscripts,
images of manuscripts from SJEA and PPEA, and tens of thousands of RDF
metadata records from MESA.The Fellow would be encouraged to be part of the intellectual life of the
English department, including speakers series, symposia, and workshops, and
would be offered the option of teaching one or more medieval studies
courses in the department during his or her tenure. The Fellow will also be
joining a vibrant community of medievalists spanning the closely linked
campuses of NCSU, UNC Chapel Hill, and Duke University. Opportunities
include participating in the Triangle Medieval Studies Seminar, the UNC
Medieval & Early Modern Lecture Series, the Duke Medieval & Renaissance
Lecture Series, colloquia at the Center for Medieval and Renaissance
Studies, and special events at the nearby National Humanities Center.
--
Timothy L. Stinson
Assistant Professor
Department of English
North Carolina State University
http://english.chass.ncsu.edu/faculty_staff/tlstinso--===============8446202497413239078==
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Transfer-Encoding: base64
Content-Disposition: attachment; filename="attachment.html"
