--===============2609479451924536621==
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit5th International Conference ALIENTO: Linguistic and intercultural 
analysis of short sapiential statements and of their transmission 
East/West, West/EastNancy – Paris 5 – 6 – 7 November 2013Ethical and moral concepts between the three culturesThis 5th edition, which concerns the construction of the database, will 
focus on the way in which the three cultures in the Iberian Peninsula in 
the Middle Ages interpret, translate and conceive such key concepts as, 
for instance, charity, alms, equity, prudence and speech.What semantic content is transferred from one culture to another, how 
the appropriations and the re-appropriations (i. e.: semantic calques 
and metaphorical transfers).What ethical or moral concepts are easily or arduously translatable and 
why.What are the complex architectures or networks that interconnect these 
concepts within a given culture and how these architectures or networks 
differ or not from those in the neighbouring culture (a Latin term may 
contain senses coming from semantically close terms from the donor 
language due to cultural affinity or language contact. We will consider 
as well the incorporation of Arabic semes into the Spanish language of 
the Middle Ages, the choices made by the translator from Arabic into 
Hebrew, the translation equivalences which might have occurred at that 
time).We will address the question of the semantic circulation by starting 
from the semantic contents of the concepts that shape the moral and 
ethical ideas in the sapiential texts that were exchanged in the Iberian 
Peninsula, between the 11th and 15th centuries. These texts are the core 
material of the research project ALIENTO.We will focus also on the dictionaries, the compilations, the 
philosophical anthologies (contemporary or not) which give a reading of 
the conceptual arborescence (or organisation) specific to each culture.If we address the linguistic and automatic treatment of the data, we 
could consider the question of the ontologies as they are developed and 
questioned today by semanticists and computer researchers.Workshops will be dedicated to problems concerning the encoding of the 
texts and to questions related to the linguistic description of the 
languages of the corpora, namely Arabic, Hebrew, Latin, Spanish and Catalan.Articles will be published in the journal: ALIENTO – Echanges 
Sapientiels en MéditerranéeAbstracts should be submitted by July 15th, 2013 to:Marie-Christine Bornes Varol
Professeur des Universités (INALCO - Paris)
CERMOM EA 4091
Porteur du projet ALIENTO
www.aliento.eu
00 33 (0) 1 40 05 98 83
varol(a)noos.frMarie-Sol Ortola
Professeur des Universités (UdL Nancy)
Directrice adjointe de l’équipe « LIS » EA 7305
Porteur du projet ALIENTO
www.aliento.eu
00 33 (0) 3 83 73 83 01
marie-sol.ortola(a)univ-lorraine.fr
Description of the ALIENTO project
(Linguistic and intercultural analysis of short sapiential statements 
and of their transmission East/West, West/East)In the ninth century, the rich Arab tradition of the adab finds its way 
into Spain, or rather al-Andalus, a country that played a prominent role 
in the exchange of knowledge from the East to the West in the 11th and 
12th centuries especially via the monasteries in the North of the 
Iberian Peninsula. It is also in al-Andalus where the adab literature 
meets the Jewish sapiential tradition of the Midrashic literature. New 
collections are composed, including original works from the 10th and 
11th centuries, and from the 12th century on, exempla and philosophers’ 
sayings are translated into Hebrew, Latin and the Romance languages. 
Much of this complex heritage is found in the extensive Spanish 
paremiological literature, which is at its highest in the 16th and 17th 
centuries, as well as in contemporary Spanish, Judeo-Spanish and 
Maghrebian collections of proverbs.Although the main lines of these exchanges are well-known, we still lack 
specific information on the circulation of these short sapiential 
statements (our basic research units) as well as on the successive 
translating choices made by the translators, their cultural 
reinterpretations or the importance of some loanwords over others. If 
sapiential textual filiations and translation sequences should be 
treated cautiously, this is particularly true of the sapiential 
statements to be found in these texts. Due to the difficulty in 
understanding them, these volatile elements, whose categorisation varies 
with time and cultures, have never been the subject of a comprehensive 
textual study which could recount their sources, circulation and 
evolution across the different spoken or written languages of the three 
cultures living in the Iberian Peninsula in the Middle-Ages. The 
paremiological studies have mostly produced compilations of proverbs 
(thesauri), critical editions and erudite studies, dedicated to a single 
work, a single language or a single culture, except for the remarkable 
ground-breaking work on the Philosophical Quartet (1975) by D. Gutas. 
The few existing databases are for the most part monolingual 
contemporary corpora of paremiae or otherwise have a translation-based 
perspective.Therefore the aim of the ALIENTO project is to work out concordances, 
even partial, close or distant connections, in order to reassess 
inter-textual relations by comparing a great quantity of data and by 
interconnecting encoded texts written in different languages.This is why the project, which needs a close interdisciplinary 
collaboration between computational researchers (ATILF), linguists and 
specialists in literature (MSH Lorraine + INALCO and the international 
network of collaborators), will develop a piece of software transferable 
to other similar texts to be used with a large reference corpus made up 
of 8 related texts 582 pages for an estimated 9,570 sapiential 
statements, which circulated in the Iberian Peninsula (in Latin, 
Arabic, Hebrew, Spanish and Catalan).
The produced software will extract and connect short sapiential 
statements through concordances generated by the specific encoding 
system scientifically developed and explained in an encoding manual 
XML-TEI. ATILF will create a multilingual interrogation programme (in 
French, Spanish and English) of the matched data and will give access 
online to the ALIENTO corpus annotated texts via the CNRTL in order to 
ensure a permanent archiving of the texts.At the end of the project we will have: a body of texts in a multilingual corpus, digitised, tagged in XML/TEI 
and publicly accessible, linked to a set of data about the texts and 
their authors.
 a set of short sapiential units with their XML/TEI annotations, 
accessible free of charge.
 a trilingual questioning interface that will display the concordanced 
statements contained in these works, with information that could be used 
to study them, irrespective of the language.
 an encoding methodology and a piece of software for matching data that 
could be used with other similar corpora.Considerations arising from the project:The aim of the project consists in reviewing the role of the Iberian 
Peninsula in the transfer and exchange of the sapiential knowledge from 
the East to the West and from the West to the East in the Middle Ages by 
studying the brief sapiential statements they contain (maxims, 
sentences, proverbes, aphorisms). The raised issues are:
1) Which are the precise links between the exchanged sapiential texts 
between different languages, different cultures and three religions in 
the Iberian Peninsula (and Provence) in the Middle Ages?
2) What changes were brought about by the translations, 
re-interpretations and readings, contained in the numerous works and 
compilations written between the 9th and 15th centuries?
3) Starting from the ancient sapiential sources, how do we get to the 
modern and contemporary Mediterranean collections of proverbs
-- 
Daniel Paul O'Donnell
Professor of English
University of Lethbridge
Lethbridge AB T1K 3M4
Canada+1 403 393-2539--===============2609479451924536621==--
