--===============5904751726199715041==
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bitDear digital medievalists,The following CfP might be of interest for some of you.Best, Franz---
CfP: WORDS – Medieval Textuality and its Material Display
Paris, June 30th – July 2nd 2016Closing date: 30th January 2016WORDS
Medieval Textuality and its Material Display
Paris, June 30th – July 2nd 2016Keynote Speakers:
Eric Palazzo (Université de Poitiers)
Geoffrey Koziol (University of California, Berkeley)For its 13th Annual Symposium to be held in Paris, the International 
Medieval Society invites abstracts on the theme of Words in the Middle 
Ages. The digital humanities, while altering the landscape of Medieval 
Studies as a whole, have most importantly overhauled the concept, 
appearance, and analysis of words and texts. Between the increasing use 
of paperless media forms and the rise in the number of digital 
collections, medievalists are seeking to adapt to these new means of 
producing knowledge about the Middle Ages. At the same time, scholars in 
this field are also trying to outline the methodological and historical 
issues that affect the study of words, which now simultaneously exist in 
the form of primary sources, codices, rolls, charters and inscriptions, 
digitally reproduced images, and the statistical and lexicographical 
data made possible by storage platforms and analytical tools.In parallel with the digital humanities, the 13th Annual IMS Symposium 
on WORDS aims to return to words themselves and to probe the 
intellectual, technical and aesthetic principles that underpin their use 
and social function in medieval graphical practices. By analysing the 
material and symbolic properties of a particular medium; the conditions 
in which texts become signs; and scribal expertise, this symposium will 
address questions that initially seem simple yet which define the very 
foundations of medieval written culture. What is a word? What are its 
components? How does it appear in a given medium? What is the 
relationship between word and text, word and letter, word and medium, 
word and reader? In a Middle Ages forever torn between economic and 
extravagant language, what is the status of the word and what kind of 
elements – visual or acoustic, linguistic or extralinguistic – does it 
contain?This IMS Symposium will thus explore (but is not limited to) four broad 
themes with a particular focus on medieval France, Francia and 
post-Roman Gaul:1)    Words and wording: medieval discourse on texts and writing; texts 
that reflect upon the act of writing (the poetic arts, prologues, 
colophons and signatures); the relationship between the writer (scribe, 
copyist, notary, stonecutter) and words, between copy and creation.2)    Words in and of themselves: the word between alphabetical 
symbol/grapheme and other symbols; images and sounds of words (nomina 
sacra, punctuation, poetic features); musical notation 
(naming/interpretation of neumes, litterae significativae); variations 
of meaning e.g. between mots and paroles; hierarchies of writing and of 
content.3)    Words and matter: the word and its format; the concept of the 
pagina, its definition, margins and limits, from manuscripts to 
inscriptions; the material turn and palaeography; writing and object, 
from book to amulet; the word beyond the text (images, heraldry, 
emblems, numismatics); impressions and the first printed texts, beyond 
the act of writing.4)    Beyond words: content-less words (pseudo-writing, 
pseudo-alphabets, pseudo-texts); word, name and identity; etymologies; 
word games and wordplay; the middle-ground between word and text 
(calligrams, anagrams, epigrams); the relationship between words and 
music (verse, prose etc. as expressed in melodies).Through these broad themes, we aim to encourage the participation of 
researchers with varying backgrounds and fields of expertise: 
historians, specialists in the auxiliary sciences (palaeographers, 
epigraphists, codicologists, numismatists) art historians, 
musicologists, philologists, literary specialists…By bringing together a 
wide variety of papers that both survey and explore this field, the IMS 
Symposium intends to bring a fresh perspective to the word in medieval 
culture.Proposals of no more than 300 words (in English or French) for a 
20-minute paper should be e-mailed to communications.ims.paris(a)gmail.com 
<mailto:communications.ims.paris(a)gmail.com> by 30th January 2016. Each 
should be accompanied by full contact information, a CV, and a list of 
the audio-visual equipment that you require.Please be aware that the IMS-Paris submissions review process is highly 
competitive and is carried out on a strictly anonymous basis. The 
selection committee will email applicants in February to notify them of 
its decision. Titles of accepted papers will be made available on the 
IMS-Paris website. Authors of accepted papers will be responsible for 
their own travel costs and conference registration fee (35 euros, 
reduced for students, free for IMS-Paris members).The IMS-Paris is an interdisciplinary, bilingual (French/English) 
organisation that fosters exchanges between French and foreign scholars. 
For the past ten years, the IMS has served as a centre for medievalists 
who travel to France to conduct research, work, or study. For more 
information about the IMS-Paris and past symposia programmes, please 
visit our website: www.ims-paris.org <http://www.ims-paris.org/>.IMS-Paris Graduate Student Prize:The IMS-Paris is pleased to offer one prize for the best paper proposal 
by a graduate student. Applications should consist of:1) a symposium paper abstract/proposal
2) an outline of a current research project (PhD. dissertation research)
3) the names and contact information of two academic refereesThe prize-winner will be selected by the board and a committee of 
honorary members, and will be notified upon acceptance to the Symposium. 
An award of 350 euros to support international travel/accommodation 
(within France, 150 euros) will be paid at the Symposium.
--===============5904751726199715041==
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Transfer-Encoding: base64
Content-Disposition: attachment; filename="attachment.html"
