--===============2807380843174028070==
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bitCall for Papers
Illuminated Charters – from the Margins of two Disciplines to the Core
of Digital HumanitiesInternational Conference, Vienna, 12–14 september 2016Deadline: 30. März 2016/30 march 2016Among the entire production of acts throughout the Middle Ages,
illuminated charters, i. e. legal documents featuring drawn or painted
decoration, never had more but a marginal share of the entire production
of acts throughout the Middle Ages, yet through their sumptuous external
make-up they were undoubtedly adding to the solemnity and publicity of
the deeds.  In spite of their outstanding and precious character,
decidedly remote from the everyday business of issuing charters in
princely, ecclesiastic and private chanceries, they are a diplomatic
phenomenon common to the whole of Europe.
Considering their ambiguous status as a legal document and a piece of
art at the same time, their study challenges skilled historians and
diplomatists and able art historians alike. In contrast to illuminated
manuscripts whose date can often only roughly be determined, they are
usually bearing their precise date of issue, thus offering to experts of
book painting extraordinary possibilities of dating and localising
artistic production of sometimes remarkable quality.
  Whereas the esthetic and decorative aspects of illuminated charters
ensured these documents at least from the 19th century onwards an
overproportioned appearance in exhibition catalogues, profound scholarly
interest in the topic from the viewpoint of history and diplomatic as
well as art history remained rather weak or restricted to certain types
of relevant sources such as collective indulgences or grants of arms.
Only during the last years research has become more conscious of the
richness and scholarly potential of the topic and the impact of more
detailed and broad-scale investigations. Attention was paid to the
representative function of decorated charters and the (mutual)
engagement of issuer and recipient/beneficiary/commissioner of the act
in the process of decoration. On the one hand, any attempt to describe
the relation of text and image in order to determine the performative
impact of illuminated charters in general remains provisional, due to
the wide temporal and regional dissemination of relevant stocks which
still require deep-digging exploration of archival holdings and
collections of libraries and museums wordwide. With, on the other hand,
an ever increasing number of online resources provided by archives and
consequently improved research tools as well as new fields of research,
studies into illuminated charters prove to be a rewarding topic for the
whole range of the Digital Humanities and Digital Diplomatic research
area. The use of modern information technologies for structured data
creation and archival storage helps to maintain consistency and enables
linking between data resources and user defined visualization. Building
upon digital tools this aim can be achieved in collaborative virtual
research environments.The forthcoming conference, organised within the project “Illuminated
Charters as Gesamtkunstwerk” (http://illuminierte-urkunden.uni-graz.at),
funded by the Austrian Science Fund FWF (P 26706) and run at the
Institute for Medieval Research of the Austrian Academy of Sciences and
the Centre for Information Modeling at the University of Graz, aims to
take serious the variety of the topic, to bring together the multitude
of scholarly attitudes towards illuminated charters and to explore the
range of methods applied for their investigation. It is settled at the
intersection of diplomatic, art history and Digital Humanities. All
relevant paper proposals are welcome, but special focusses are expected
to be on:- The representative, commemorative and performative function of
illuminated charters
- The involvement of issuer and recipient into the process of drawing up
and decorating the acts, specific from case to case
- Illuminated charters emanating from the papal chanceries or from the
environment of the Curia (e.g. collective indulgences) or grants of arms
from the imperial chancery as mass phenomena
- The application of pattern recognition tools for automatic queries of
illuminated charters in databases
- New (statistical) approaches towards the temporal and regional
distribution of different types of decorated acts
- Signs of authentication and graphic symbols (esp. notarial signs)
displayed by charters as an artistic problem
- The design of (archival) databases of illuminated charters and similar
objectsThe conference languages are German and English. The admission of papers
in other languages is up to the organisers. Papers should not exceed 30
minutes in length. Please send an abstract of no more than 300 words and
a short CV (of five lines max.) with the reference “paper conference
illuminated charters” to illuminierteurkunden(a)gmail.com by 30 march
2016. Travel and accommodation costs will be reimbursed to speakers by
the organisers.Reference / Quellennachweis:
CFP: Illuminierte Urkunden (Wien, 12-14 Sept 16). In: H-ArtHist, Jan 18,
2016. <http://arthist.net/archive/12003>.--
--===============2807380843174028070==--
