--===============1691742920418586343==
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bitDear Colleagues,Please find in attachment a Call for Papers ​for the 3rd Int. Workshop on
Semantic Web for Scientific Heritage (SW4SH 2017).Best regardsIsabelle, Catherine, Alexandre and Arnaud​​​
*3rd Int. Workshop on Semantic Web for Scientific Heritage SW4SH 2017, in
conjunction with ESWC 2017*http://www.cepam.cnrs.fr/zoomathia/sw4sh/Important dates:
- March 3, 2017: Paper submission deadline
- March 31, 2017: Notification of paper acceptance
- April 13, 2017: Camera ready version
- May 29, 2017: Workshop dateThe 3rd Workshop on Semantic Web for Scientific Heritage will be held in
conjunction with the 14th ESWC 2017 Conference which takes place from May
28th to June 1st in Portoroz, Slovenia. It is a continuation of the SW4SH
workshop series initiated at ESWC 2015 which aims to provide a leading
international and interdisciplinary forum for disseminating the latest
research in the field of Semantic Web for the preservation and exploitation
of our scientific heritage, the study of the history of ideas and their
transmission.Classicists and historians are interested in developing textual databases,
in order to gather and explore large amounts of primary source materials.
For a long time, they mainly focused on text digitization and markup. They
only recently decided to try to explore the possibility of transferring
some analytical processes they previously thought incompatible with
automation to knowledge engineering systems, thus taking advantage of the
growing set of tools and techniques based on the languages and standards of
the semantic Web, such as linked data, ontologies, and automated reasoning.
The iconographic data, which are also relevant in history of science and
arise similar problematic could be addressed as well and offer suggestive
insights for a global methodology for diverse media. On the other hand,
Semantic Web researchers are willing to take up more ambitious challenges
than those arising in the native context of the Web in terms of
anthropological complexity, addressing meta-semantic problems of flexible,
pluralist or evolutionary ontologies, sources heterogeneity, hermeneutic
and rhetoric dimensions. Thus the opportunity for a fruitful encounter of
knowledge engineers with computer-savvy historians and classicists has
come. This encounter may be inscribed within the more general context of
digital humanities, a research area at the intersection of computing and
the humanities disciplines which is gaining an ever-increasing momentum and
where the Linked Open Data is playing an increasingly prominent role.The purpose of the workshop is to provide a forum for discussion about the
methodological approaches to the specificity of annotating “scientific”
texts (in the wide sense of the term, including disciplines such as
history, architecture, or rhetoric), and to support a collaborative
reflection, on possible guidelines or specific models for building
historical ontologies. The iconographic data, which are also relevant in
history of science and arise similar problematic could be addressed as well
and offer suggestive insights for a global methodology for diverse media. A
key goal of the workshop, focusing on research issues related to pre-modern
scientific texts, is to emphasize, through precise projects and up-to-date
investigation in digital humanities, the benefit of a multidisciplinary
research to create and operate on relevantly structured data. One of the
main interests of the very topic of pre-modern historical data management
lies in historical semantics, and the opportunity to jointly consider how
to identify and express lexical, theoretical and material evolutions.
Dealing with historical texts, a major problem is indeed to handle the
discrepancy of the historical terminology compared to the modern one, and,
in the case of massive, diachronic data, to take into account the
contextual and theoretical meaning of terms and segments of texts and their
semantics.Topics covered by the workshop include the following:
• Ontologies and vocabularies in Ancient Science
• Semantic annotation of ancient and medieval scientific texts
• Information/knowledge extraction from archaeological objects and texts
• Semantic integration of heterogeneous and contradicting knowledge
• Representation of the historical dimension of Scientific Knowledge
• Impact of Semantic Web technologies on Digital Humanities
• Knowledge Engineering for ancient zoological science and literature
• Social Web, collaborative systems, tagging, and user feedbackPaper Submission:
We invite short position papers (4-6 pages) and regular research papers
(8-12 pages) describing innovative ideas covering the topics of the
workshop.
Submissions must be written in English and follow the LNCS guidelines. For
details see the Springer LNCS Author Instructions page.
Papers must be submitted via Easychair: https://easychair.org/
conferences/?conf=sw4sh2017. Accepted papers will be published in the CEUR
workshop proceedings series.Schedule
• Due date for full workshop papers submission: March 3, 2017
• Notification of paper acceptance to authors: March 31, 2017
• Camera-ready of accepted papers: April 13, 2017
• Workshop: May 29, 2017Workshop organizers:
Isabelle Draelants, CNRS, IRHT
Catherine Faron Zucker, Univ. Nice Sophia Antipolis
Alexandre Monnin, Inria
Arnaud Zucker, Univ. Nice Sophia AntipolisContact:
For any question, please contact the organisers via email:
sw4sh2017(a)easychair.org--===============1691742920418586343==
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Transfer-Encoding: base64
Content-Disposition: attachment; filename="attachment.html"
