--===============0596016121430518389==
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit[Fwd from Prof Andreas Speer, Thomas Institut, University of Cologne]Call for Papers (deadline: August 15, 2017)English version below (and at http://kmt.phil-fak.uni-koeln.de/10209.html)
French version: http://kmt.phil-fak.uni-koeln.de/10210.html
German version: http://kmt.phil-fak.uni-koeln.de/10208.html41. Cologne Mediaevistentagung, September 10-14, 2018The Library: Spaces of Thought and Knowledge SystemsIn the digital era, the experience of what a library once was seems to 
slip away slowly but unstoppably: the library meant access to a 
substantial, yet limited amount of books, which were available only at a 
certain place, at a certain time and under certain conditions. It was a 
collection subject to certain criteria, which required a reasonable and 
steady order to enable finding anything there. All of these limitations 
concerning the immediate access to books are increasingly removed by 
global search engines and comprehensive search algorithms. We experience 
every day in which way our reading and working conditions are 
practically altered by this. Which consequences this might have for our 
conceptions of knowledge and research is, however, at best only vaguely 
apparent.Thus, making the Library topic of a Mediaevistentagung is supposed to 
reveal some generalities regarding the relation between the library and 
knowledge, which might facilitate our reflection on current changes as 
well as on conditions and mechanisms of knowledge in general. This may 
be achieved by studying the question of how libraries in their various 
forms fit into and affected intellectual processes and their social and 
material conditions. For this purpose – and according to the framework 
of our conference –, we look upon a millennium in which libraries played 
a crucial role in passing on knowledge across linguistic and cultural 
borders. Libraries were places of thinking, writing, translating, and 
copying.A library is not merely a cluster of books which are waiting for their 
users. Libraries are spaces of thought and institutions of organized 
knowledge. They reflect the questions of their times and preserve them 
for the future. Thus, they are privileged spaces of participation in 
knowledge, to which we contribute with the books we write ourselves. 
Early on, those knowledge carriers were treasured in places in which 
they could be stored, studied, and reproduced. Those places were 
archives of all kinds and, above all, libraries. According to their size 
and conception, they have since granted access to a certain and at the 
same time limited amount of knowledge carriers: may it be scrolls, 
documents, manuscripts, books, microfilms or databases.The concept of a library shows the interdependence of conceptual and 
material culture, the interweaving of the history of knowledge and 
institutional context conditions. At the outset of every considerable 
movements of knowledge reception are books or text corpora. In this 
context, libraries are spaces of thought which, on the one hand, reflect 
concepts and, on the other, enable them in the first place. Many 
knowledge systems originate from library practice, which can itself – 
implicitly or explicitly – be an expression of a theoretically 
established knowledge system, which again becomes accessible only 
through this practical knowledge.Thus, there is a broad basis for an interdisciplinary approach to the 
conference’s topic. Without intending to be exhaustive, some questions 
shall be addressed in the following.(i) First, there is the question of how libraries emerge and decline: 
Where do they exist? Who owns them? Who establishes them? How is the 
material collected? Where do the books come from? What are their values? 
How does the collection develop over time? How do storage, arrangement, 
and utilization of the material take place? Who are the users? Which 
rules must be followed in using the material? Who monitors this and how? 
What do the users do with or to the books under certain circumstances, 
e.g., read them, copy them, gloss them, damage them, steal them…? When 
and how are catalogues prepared? According to which systems? Are 
libraries at certain points purposely reconstructed? For which reasons? 
What are the reasons for the loss of libraries?(ii) In this context, the question of how contemporaries perceive and 
describe libraries arises. For which purposes are they visited? Who is 
allowed to visit them? Who is not? What does a visit to the library look 
like? Is there an awareness of the specific features of a certain 
library? Are there descriptions of experiences concerning a certain 
library, its richness or its shortcomings?(iii) Closely related to this is the image of a library: How are 
libraries depicted in literary texts and paintings – actually existing 
ones, on the one hand, and stereotype, fictional, or imagined ones on 
the other? Which mental experiences (insight, epiphany, conversion, 
boredom) are connected to libraries? What does the layout of a library 
(e.g., chest, lectern, rooms, buildings) and of its books (e.g., covers, 
illumination) tell us about their meaning and the perceptions of their 
owners? And last, which perceptions and wishes shape the (actualized as 
well as not actualized) planning of a library?(iv) Libraries, as text ensembles, are not necessarily bound to a 
certain place or a specific material form. We reconstruct immaterial 
libraries and, in doing so, investigate what an author might have read, 
which sources were available to a reader, and what a nowadays lost 
library might have looked like at a certain time. The digital era 
further opens new possibilities for the creation of ideal libraries 
that, concerning their claim to completeness and their presence, exceed 
their historical paragons by far and thus open new, unprecedented 
perspectives for research. At this, the reconstruction of the library of 
an author does not only represent his intellectual cosmos, but also 
provides an insight into his ways of doing research, his search for 
specific texts, their selection and compilation as well as the observed 
gaps, which were then filled by their own productions.(v) Further, classifications, reading guides, lectionaries, and 
establishing systems essentially belong to the library. Regarding, for 
instance, the Aristotelian and Platonic text corpora (although these are 
certainly not the only ones), it becomes apparent that libraries and 
scientific classifications are closely linked. There are libraries for 
scholastic and mystical theology, for physicians, lawyers, and 
astronomers. That way, a canon is established, taught, transmitted, 
transformed, and replaced.(vi) Moreover, libraries are the basis for intertextuality. They thereby 
demand certain skills of the reader. How is this particular knowledge 
imparted? Do libraries feature a ‘common core’ for the discourse across 
fields of expertise? To what extent do libraries influence the reading 
and quoting habits of their users?(vii) In terms of disciplinarity, the topic encompasses different 
realms, which – according to the type of library considered – may occur 
separately or in conjunction: monastic libraries, university libraries, 
court libraries as well as the libraries of professors (e.g., 
Amplonius), of physicians (e.g., Arnaldus de Villa Nova), of academic 
prelates (e.g., Nicholas of Cusa), of writers (e.g., Richard de 
Fournival, who, among other things, composed a Biblionomia), of 
councilmen, rabbis, and travelling scholars reflect the interests of 
their users and the collectors. Various aspects also emerge by including 
Byzantine culture, Jewish tradition, and the Islamic world, with their 
often quite different conditions, for instance, the notable dominance of 
private libraries.(vii) Libraries have always been places of media transfer: form scrolls 
to parchment to paper, from manuscripts to letterpress to digital 
storage media. Transfer processes, however, always involve the danger of 
losing something. Only rarely are collections entirely transferred from 
one medium to another. Certain technical and social changes can be 
observed through the prism of the library, such as the introduction of 
paper, of letterpress, or of the increasing vernacular literature (also 
in the sciences). How is this media change and transfer addressed? What 
does it mean for the collection of a library?Like always, the Cologne Mediaevistentagung aims at the broadest 
possible interdisciplinary spectrum. Thus, we would like to invite 
philosophers and theologians, historians and philologists, literary 
scholars and cultural scientists, art historians and science historians, 
and so on, to participate with a question from their field of expertise 
or with an interdisciplinary issue in the 41. Cologne 
Mediaevistentagung. It is our goal to challenge and reconsider habitual 
perceptions and opinions and to thereby open up new perspectives.Let me conclude by kindly asking for your topic proposals together with 
a short abstract (of about 1 page), preferably to be send in by August 
15, 2017 (thomas-institut(at)uni-koeln.de).I would be delighted to welcome you personally at the 41. Cologne 
Mediaevistentagung next year. Please feel free to forward this 
invitation to colleagues who are not yet listed in our address file or 
send us the address of those who are possibly interested.Thank you very much!I am looking forward to receiving your proposals and remain with kind 
regards
Cologne, March 2017
Andreas SpeerAcademic Direction and Organization:Prof. Dr. Andreas Speer  (andreas.speer(a)uni-koeln.de)
Lars Reuke, M.A.  (lreuke1(a)uni-koeln.de)Thomas-Institut der Universität zu Köln
Universitätsstraße 22
D-50923 KÖLNTel.: +49/(0)221/470-2309
Fax: +49/(0)221/470-5011
Email: thomas-institut(a)uni-koeln.de
www.kmt.uni-koeln.de  │  www.thomasinst.uni-koeln.de--===============0596016121430518389==--
