--===============0128352249411309154==
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printableWith Apologies for Cross-postingThe main topic of the AIUCD 2019 Conference is =E2=80=98Pedagogy, teaching, a=
nd
research in the age of Digital Humanities'. The conference aims at
reflecting on the new possibilities that the digital yields for pedagogy,
teaching, and scholarly research: how will these transform teaching in the
humanities? What contributions can humanistic cultural critique offer to
the digital revolution? What is the connection with the digitization plan
for Universities outlined by the Ministry? It also concerns the Digital
Humanities as a new discipline, and this brings forward further
considerations: how can the new professional figure of the digital humanist
be developed? Which areas of knowledge define the Digital Humanities as a
subject of study, research, and teaching? How can we recognise, classify,
describe, and evaluate research efforts in the Digital Humanities?While open to other topics related to Digital Humanities, proposals for
contributions are particularly encouraged on the following:   -
      - General questions:
         - *the epistemological positioning and area of knowledge of DH in
         relation to the systems of Academic Research Areas (Settori
         Scientifico-Disciplinari) and  Recruiting in Italy;*
         - the positioning of DH in the European and International academic
         systems;
         - the evaluation of research in DH beyond traditional publications;
         - dissemination, public history, and crowdsourcing within research
         projects;
         - the role of inter(multi-trans-cross)-disciplinary DH research in
         European projects, enquiry, and teaching.
      - Pedagogy and teaching questions:
         - *teaching DH: which models, technologies, and methods?*
         - teaching the humanities in secondary schools and universities
         with DH tools;
         - teaching DH at the University: how is it taught today?
         - DH and media: production, dissemination, and analytical prospects
         - teaching history and DH;
         - DH and didactic strategies;
         - DH and hands-on teaching practices;
         - DH and primary source teaching;
         - Big Data methodologies and technologies in DH research and
         teaching.
      - Questions concerning research efforts:
         - *statistical and quantitative research methods and their
         teaching applications;*
         - Data Science and the role of DH in the definition of new
         knowledge;
         - Information science and DH:  meeting points and methodological
         integration;
         - cultural and social impact of humanities research with
         computational methodologies;
         - Semantic web technologies and linked open data in the humanities;
         - models and tools for knowledge representation in the humanities
         and the cultural heritage sector;
         - visualization methodologies and technologies and their
         significance for humanities and cultural heritage knowledge
and information;
         - Natural Language Processing methodologies and applications for
         the humanities;
         - digitization methodologies and technologies for the production,
         preservation, and promotion of digital cultural heritage.
DEADLINESThe deadline for submitting proposals is the 25th October 2018 (h. 23.59 CET
).Notifications of acceptance will be sent to the authors by 15th December
2018.The official languages of the Conference are Italian and English. However,
it is possible to present in other languages if English slides are provided.
PROPOSAL CATEGORIES AND SUBMISSIONProposals must be sent in the form of an extended abstract (see below for
details), using the ConfTool conference management system, accessible at:
http://www.conftool.net/aiucd2019The Conference provides the following proposal categories:   -
      -
         1. long proposal (30 mins: 20 mins + 10 mins for for questions and
         answers): it should discuss innovative methodologies and
their theoretical
         foundations, experiences of analysis and applications that are
         methodologically significant within a discipline;
presentations devoted to
         presenting a specific tool or resource are acceptable only if
they include
         a thorough critical discussion of the methods used and/or a
theoretical
         evaluation of the results obtained;
         2. short proposal (20 mins: 15 mins + 5 mins for questions and
         answers): it must present a mature research product or a
research project;
         3. panel (90 or 45 mins, including questions and answers): a
         series of presentations (maximum 6) should describe, from a
theoretical and
         methodological point of view, a specific topic or a critical
presentation
         of the grounding, methods and results of a big project;
         4. poster: must primarily address the progress of an ongoing
         project or the technical details of a tool or of a digital resource;
         5. workshop and tutorial: in the two days prior to the Conference,
         one or two workshops or tutorials on topics or tools of
interest to the DH
         community will be accepted.Proposals will be evaluated through double-blind peer review by scholars in
the Humanities, Computer Science and/or Digital Humanities. The proposal
evaluation will be carried out based on the following criteria:   -
      -
         - Relevance to the topic of the conference; consistency with the
         Digital Humanities and Digital Culture domains.
         - Originality, relevance, or innovative approach.
         - Methodological rigour, accurate description of the methodology;
         the research presented should be reproducible
         - Adequacy of the theoretical and conceptual approach to the
         reference domain.
         - Consistency of arguments; clear definition of the objectives;
         coherence between objectives and results.
         - Critical analysis of the literature; a bibliography
         - Quality of any technical solutions proposed within the reference
         domain.
         - Good balance between the Humanities and Computer Science
         components of the research.
         - Structure of the text; quality of writing; ease of
         understanding; explanations of scientific language.At the end of the evaluation process, the Program Committee may decide to
move an accepted proposal to a different category of presentation.To submit a proposal, please sign into ConfTool (
http://www.conftool.net/aiucd2019). When submitting a proposal, authors
must specify keywords from those suggested by the platform in order to
facilitate the review process.
PROPOSAL STRUCTURE AND FORMATSProposals must clearly present the goals of the contribution, provide a
brief overview of current research in the field, specify and discuss the
methodology adopted and, where appropriate, the results obtained or
expected. The abstracts will be published in a book with an ISBN
identifier. The most promising contributions will be selected for
publication as full articles in the AIUCD Umanistica Digitale journal (
https://umanisticadigitale.unibo.it). Proposals must also include a short
bibliography. Figures or tables may be included. The length of the proposal
varies depending on the type of proposal:   -
      -
         - Long paper proposal should be 1500-1800 words in length
         (including footnotes but excluding the bibliography);
         - Short paper and poster proposals should be 800-1000 words in
         length (including footnotes but excluding the bibliography);
         - Panel proposals should be 800-1000 words in length plus 200-250
         words for each single presentation, (including footnotes but
excluding the
         bibliography);
         - Workshop or tutorial proposals should be at least 1000 words and
         include: a title and a short description of the content and
its relevance
         to the conference and the DH community in general, complete
information of
         all tutors with a brief description of their research interests and
         previous experience, requests for technical support at the
conference, and
         whether the workshop will have its own Call for Participation.When submitting the proposal, ConfTool also requires the provision of a
short abstract (300 words). Proposals should be drafted according to the
templates available at:   -
      -
         - Word: template-abstract-AIUCD2019-en.doc
         <https://aiucd2019.files.wordpress.com/2018/09/template-abstract-aiu=
cd2019-en.doc>
         - ODT: template-abstract-AIUCD2019-en.odt
         <https://aiucd2019.files.wordpress.com/2018/09/template-abstract-aiu=
cd2019-en.odt>which also includes editorial specifications. Valid formats are DOCX, DOC,
and ODT.The official languages of the AIUCD 2019 Conference are Italian and
English, but it is possible to submit a proposal also in the following
languages: French, German and Spanish. In these cases, it is mandatory to
provide a short abstract in English in ConfTool.Posters should be written in Italian or English. Posters will also need to
clearly present the objectives of the project, provide a brief overview of
the state of the art and the methodologies adopted and, where appropriate,
the results obtained or expected. They must also contain a short
bibliography. The format is portrait A1 (841=C3=97594 mm). Posters will be
displayed in a dedicated space at the Conference venue. Display panels will
be provided. Please bring your poster already printed, as we are unable to
provide a printing service. Personal laptop computers may be used in the
poster exhibition area. If your presentation includes a laptop, please
inform the organising committee on acceptance of your proposal. Specific
poster slam sessions will be scheduled in the Conference programme to give
authors the opportunity to briefly introduce (max 2 minutes) their poster.
--=20
Alberto Campagnolo, PhD
CLIR <https://www.clir.org/> Postdoctoral Fellow in Data Curation for
Medieval Studies
Digital Humanities & Archaeology of the book Researcher
*Digital Medievalist Director <https://digitalmedievalist.wordpress.com/>*Mob. +1-202-766-9626 (USA)
Mob. +39 347 11 67 355 (IT)
Orcid: orcid.org/0000-0002-8672-8400--===============0128352249411309154==
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Transfer-Encoding: base64
Content-Disposition: attachment; filename="attachment.html"
