--===============5494851026446961230==
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bitApologies for cross posting
---------------------------------------------------
IQLA-GIAT International Summer School in Quantitative Analysis of Textual
Data
4th edition
Call for participationRecent developments in digital methods are not only changing how research
is conducted in the humanities and social sciences, but also how new
research is planned and designed. In order to reach the full potential and
benefits of this revolution, most research activities need a new generation
of researchers: data scientists for humanities and social sciences.
Digital methods are being utilised by a variety of disciplines. The growing
availability of large
corpora and large databases calls for new methods that are able to deal
with new problems, open the door to new questions and develop new knowledge.Presentation
"Distant Reading", "Digital Methods", "Computational social sciences" and
"Statistical learning from textual data" are general terms that refer to a
wide range of methods that have a common aim: retrieving information from
texts by means of computer-aided tools. Today, computer-aided text analysis
is an umbrella term referring to a number of qualitative, quantitative and
mixed-methods approaches. It is an object of research in many sectors of
linguistics, computer sciences, mathematics and statistics. Furthermore,
computer aided text analysis is used as a research tool within a number of
disciplines such as psychology, philosophy, sociology, sociolinguistics,
education, history, political studies, literary studies, communication and
media studies. The recent evolution of information technologies (IT) and
computational methods has led to a number of distinct but interrelated
sectors (e.g. computational linguistics, information retrieval, natural
language processing, text mining, text analytics, sentiment analysis,
opinion mining, topic extraction, etc.) with interesting industrial
applications, such as electronic dictionaries, artificial intelligence,
plagiarism detection and similar.Recent studies have stressed the need for developing, adopting and sharing
interdisciplinary approaches. The IQLA-GIAT Summer School is the ideal
environment for developing innovative analytical tools by pooling together
the research methods from different disciplines.The IQLA-GIAT Summer School is characterized by three main elements:1. a general part devoted to quantitative methods;
2. a special issue that has changed over time (2019: Data Science and Data
scientists
in Humanities and Social Sciences);
3. several lab-sessions dedicated to computer-aided analysis of textual
data.ObjectivesTeaching activities at the School will raise questions that can be answered
thanks to quantitative methods implemented within a text analysis framework
and other procedures that may be used to identify and compare text
characteristics. The aim is to discuss the strengths, weaknesses,
opportunities and threats of quantitative methods for text analysis with
postgraduate students, early career researchers and scholars of different
disciplines. The Summer School aims at:1. sharing information on software, corpora, relevant literature and
research results;
2. promoting a dialogue among different disciplines on emerging research
issues;
3. developing innovative analytical tools and integrated research methods;
4. introducing postgraduate students and early career researchers to new
strains of research and applications;
5. sharing state-of-the-art techniques in digital methods for text analysis
(topic detection, text classification, data visualization).Does this School fit your needs?Would you like to take into account a large number of relevant novels,
articles published by
newspapers, transcriptions of open-ended interviews, or comments posted on
social media in your research? Are there definitely too many texts for any
scholar to read them in a life span? Why not trying to ask a computer to do
this task?
A software package is not able to "close read" a text. On the contrary, by
means of mathematical and statistical tools, it might be smart to "distant
read" a text (i.e. collecting data, retrieving relevant information,
summarizing features, finding patterns, etc.). Instead of close-reading a
limited number of texts, why not working with thousands of texts, upload
them into the memory of a computer and ask a software package to produce
analyses and results?CreditsThe IQLA-GIAT Summer School in Quantitative Analysis of Textual Data is
organized by GIAT – Interdisciplinary Text Analysis Group (www.giat.org) in
collaboration with the International Quantitative Linguistics Association (
www.iqla.org).
The IQLA-GIAT Summer School is a project funded by the University of Padova
(www.unipd.it) and coordinated by Professor Arjuna Tuzzi (University of
Padova).Application and deadlines
The IQLA-GIAT Summer School is open to 20 participants including
researchers, scholars and postgraduate students. The selection of 20
participants is due to the capacity of the laboratory room.Applicants should send a file in pdf format including:1. curriculum vitae;
2. personal mission statement and research interests (max 500 words);Applications should be sent to the following address: qatd.school(a)fisppa.itDeadline June, 27th
Tuition fee 250 €ScheduleThe IQLA-GIAT Summer School will take place from Monday 9th to Friday 13th
September
2019.
The IQLA-GIAT Summer School is a full-time intensive course held:- On Monday from 10:00 am to 6:00 pm
- From Tuesday to Thursday from 9:30 am to 6:00 pm
- On Friday from 9:30 am to 4:00 pmOn Friday, the last two hours will be left for the final assessment.LocationUniversity of Padova
Department of Philosophy, Sociology, Education & Applied Psychology
(Dipartimento di Filosofia, Sociologia, Pedagogia e Psicologia Applicata -
FISPPA)
Sociology buildings
via Cesarotti, 10/12
35123 Padova, ITALYClassesAll courses are in English. Teaching activities include lectures and lab
sessions, as well as
tutorials illustrating software tools.
The teaching staff includes researchers and experts from different
Universities and Research
institutes:- Dominique Brunato (ILC / CNR of Pisa, Italy)
- Fabio Ciotti (Univ. of Roma Tor Vergata, Italy)
- Sascha Diwersy (Université Paul Valéry – Montpellier, France)
- Maciej Eder (Univ. of Kraków, Poland)
- George Mikros (National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Greece)
- Stefano Ondelli (Univ. of Trieste, Italy)
- Pierre Ratinaud (Univ. of Toulouse II, France)
- Jan Rybicki (Jagiellonian Univ. of Kraków, Poland)
- Giuseppe Veltri (Univ. of Trento, Italy)Main topicsComputational stylistics, stylometry, texts and gender, topic modelling,
text classification, opinion mining, Forensic linguistics, author profiling
and authorship attribution methodsFinal Evaluation and self-assessmentAll participants will be requested to complete an evaluation questionnaire
to express their
opinions about the main aspects of the IQLA-GIAT Summer School (e.g.
organization,
teaching, materials, facilities and equipment, expectations, satisfaction
rate, suggestions etc. ). It is worth mentioning that the fourth edition of
the Summer School is organized also considering the results and suggestions
obtained through the evaluation questionnaires done in 2013, 2015 and 2017
editions.All participants will complete a self-assessment questionnaire on technical
skills and general
knowledge including 30 multiple choice questions (one correct answer out of
four). Grades will reflect the sum of all correct answers (one point)
according to the following range: A (29-30 points); B (25-28 points); C
(21-24 points); D (17-20 points); E (15-16 points).Website and social networksThe IQLA-GIAT Summer School will provide a specific website within GIAT's
domain
(www.giat.org) for the distribution of learning resources, links and
bibliographic references
before, during and after the Summer School.
The IQLA-GIAT Summer School is also active on Facebook and Twitter.Info
For any further information and details about terms, deadlines, application
forms and payment methods, please contact: qatd.school(a)fisppa.it
-- 
Fabio Ciotti
Department of "Studi letterari, Filosofici e di Storia dell’arte" -
University of Roma "Tor Vergata"
DH2019 PC Co-Chair
Chief Editor "Umanistica Digitale" https://umanisticadigitale.unibo.it/
@Fabio_Ciotti
<https://twitter.com/fabio_ciotti>
f.ciotti(a)pec.it<https://twitter.com/fabio_ciotti>
-- 
Fabio Ciotti
Department of "Studi letterari, Filosofici e di Storia dell’arte" -
University of Roma "Tor Vergata"
DH2019 PC Co-Chair
Chief Editor "Umanistica Digitale" https://umanisticadigitale.unibo.it/
@Fabio_Ciotti
<https://twitter.com/fabio_ciotti>
f.ciotti(a)pec.it<https://twitter.com/fabio_ciotti>--===============5494851026446961230==
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Transfer-Encoding: base64
Content-Disposition: attachment; filename="attachment.html"
