--===============0390684299460929890==
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printableCaution: This email was sent from someone outside of the University of Lethbr=
idge. Do not click on links or open attachments unless you know they are safe=
. Suspicious emails should be forwarded to phishing(a)uleth.ca.
Call for Papers
Virtual International Conference "The Medieval Eschatology"
(Santiago de Compostela, July 28-29th, 2021)
https://escatologiamedievalciem.webnode.es/call-for-papers-english/Eschatology is one of the central components of medieval Christian
culture. The end of the world, the Last Judgment, salvation, Messianism,
the Antichrist, the Apocalypticism and millenarianism are inescapable
elements in what we may generally describe as "Medieval eschatology". In
this universe, the coming of the Antichrist antedated the Last Judgment
and the end of the world. This favoured the appearance of prophecies and
contributed to the shaping of a present "on standby" on the basis of a
future of salvation or damnation with the Last Judgment on the horizon.
This medieval eschatological scenario can be found across events,
authors, texts, social movements or cultural and artistic representations.A far as events are concerned, the early medieval fears crystallized in
the "fear of the year 1000", the expectations of the end of the world
during the 11th century, the "Investiture Controversy", the catastrophes
associated sometimes to the Antichrist of the last emperor, the Great
Schism of 1378, not to mention many other events of different nature
that we can identify in a variety of settings of the Medieval Western
world and which have been interpreted in eschatological terms.In other sense, eschatological mechanisms can also be found in medieval
texts, authors and thinkers. This end-of-the-world traces can be
identified in Beatus of Li=C3=A9bana and the Asturian Chronica Prophetica but
also in De Liutprand, Raoul Glaber, Ad=C3=A9mar de Chabannes or Helgaud.
After the 12th century, the speculations on the future grew more
developed. Particular mention deserve Gerhoh de Reichersberg, Hildegarda
de Bingen and, most particularly, Joachim of Fiore, who in the 13th
century, had a lot of influence in the Franciscan order in such authors
as Pedro Olivi, Ubertino of Casale, Ram=C3=B3n Llull, Arnaldus de Vilanova or
Jean de Roquetaillade. Later, they would be joined by such figures as
Vicente Ferrer, Mamfred de Verceil or Bernardino de Siena, to cite but a
few. There are even some authors and texts that include eschatological
principles without this being their main purpose. Such is the case of
some Chronicles, Histories, Annals and other text types (treaties,
mirrors for princes, travel books, etc.).As to social movements, from the 13th century, fundamentally, a number
of heretic agitation and revolts where eschatological ideas emerge have
been identified. These include, for instance, the apostolici, the
Beguines and Beghards, or the Hussites, among others. Lastly, the
representation of eschatological images in the Beati or in illuminated
texts and the representation of the Last Judgments in architecture are
just the artistic manifestation of the problem that is the subject of
study of this Conference.It is therefore the intention of the International Conference "The
Medieval Eschatology" to provide a venue for reflecting on these as well
as other eschatological issues that may be proposed. This can be done
analytically or descriptively from both a practical and theoretical
approach. Starting there, we can look at what their purpose was and at
what meanings they have been given in different contexts and spaces. The
Conference welcomes multidisciplinarity and encourages the participation
of researchers from the fields of history, history of the art, literary
studies, philosophy and political sciences. It is our aim to bring
together different views in order to encourage a theoretical and
practical reflection on eschatological concepts, their meaning and uses.On the basis of the above, the following will be the main pillars on
which this Conference will be built:The study of events (and/or their interpretations) with an
eschatological component.
Reflecting on authors who have eschatological thinking or where
eschatology is present.
Research into eschatological texts (Chronicles, Annals, apocalyptic
treaties, sermons, commentaries, etc.), their dissemination and sources.
The study of the social and mental involvement of eschatology in the
medieval social movements and revolts.
The study of medieval eschatological concepts such as time, space,
salvation, fear, prophetism or Messianism, among others.
In-depth theoretical or historiographical research into the variety of
issues mentioned above.
The interpretation of all things eschatological after the medieval times
and in the near present (cinema, series, novel, comic and videogames).
The analysis of medieval plagues and of medieval plagues and their
connection to the present.
PAPERSProposals for papers should be sent to the Organizing Committee before 1
April 2021. Once the proposal has been received, the scientific
committee will assess it and will communicate whether it has been
accepted within a week. Contributors may then register and, if they so
desire, book their lodging with the University Hospitality Service of
the University of Santiago de Compostela.The submission of papers will be via email to: israel.sanmartin(a)usc.es
by attaching a document in Word format that must include:- Title
- Author
- Abstract (no more than one sheet)
- Brief CV (no more than ten lines)Papers may be submitted in Galician, Spanish, Catalan, Portuguese,
French, English and Italian.REGISTRATION FEES- Speakers: =E2=82=AC40
- Attendants (with certificate): =E2=82=AC10
- Attendants (no certificate): freePUBLISHINGThe papers will be published in a book. All its chapters will be
subjected to blind peer review.DATES AND DEADLINES- Deadline for submission of proposals: 1 April 2021
- Deadline for registration: 1 June 2021
- Date of the conference: 28 & 29 July 2021VENUEThe Conference will be held at the Faculty of Geography & History of the
University of Santiago de Compostela through the platform TEAMS on 28th
- 29th July 2021.--===============0390684299460929890==--
